# Network-project
cisco packet tracer network project
I started our project by creating 8 routers and then ı added HWIC-2T to our routers because it allowed us to add more ports. I turned off the electricity of the routers. I duplicated 8 routers with the control key and added ISP next to the routers.
While making the connections, ı used dt dc cables and preferred them for serial ports. I connected our connections to each other using the relevant serial 0/0/0 ports of the routers. Later, ı added 8 switches of the 2960 type. I connected them to the routers through gigabit ports. The reason why ı created a redundant connection between our switches is a switch. so that it can use other connections if it breaks down.
Then, between the 2 switches, ı connected gigabit 0 1 to gigabit 0 1 and gigabit 0 2 to gigabit 0 2. Then ı connected Router R11 to Router R12 and Router R31 to Router R32. I added a switch, a server and a laptop to our ISP router. I added another dhcp server and web server.
I connected a wireless router to switch 1 and provided a wireless connection since ı had a laptop device. Then, ı added 7 PC machines and connected them to the relevant switches. Then, ı assigned IP addresses to our network clusters. Thus, ı completed the IP blocks of local area networks. Guest ı also defined an IP address for staff and management.
Then, go to our R1 router and open the router panel from CLI settings. Router>en,Router#conf t,Router(config)#host R1,
R1(config)#enable secret thk,R1(config)#line con 0,R1(config-line)#password thk,R1(config-line)#login,R1(config-line)#exit,R1(config) We save it last by typing #do wr.
I do these steps on all routers one by one.Then, according to the serials to which the ports are connected, R1(config)#int s0/0/0,R1(config-if)#no shut,R1(config-if)#ip address 10.1.2.1 255.255.255.0,R1(config) in the same panel. -if)#description R2 GOES
Then ı test whether we can ping the other side with ping R2#ping 10.1.2.1. After applying these steps to all routers, ı give the IP address to our DHCP server.
After double-clicking, ı go to the desktop column and enter the IPv4 address subnet mask and default gateway addresses. Then ı come to the WEB server and follow the same steps for the web server.We apply in Afterwards, we double-click on our wireless device to make wireless configuration settings, then go to the gui tab. We give the IP address statically manually.
Then, we click on the wireless security option under the wireless tab, select wpa2 personal from security mode and enter our password. This makes our modem more secure.Then ı save and exit. Then, ı come to the laptop, click on the desktop tab, click on pc wireless, click Connect and look at the wireless broadcast we want to connect to.
After these are completed, open the panel of our R11 router again to ssh. R11(config)#crypto key generate rsa,R11(config)#ip ssh version 2,R11(config)#username admin privilege 15 secret admin
After entering the commands R11(config)#line vty 0 4,R11(config-line)#transport input ssh,R11(config-line)#login local, we type do wr, save it and then exit.
Then ı test ssh connection from our DHCP server to test our SSH connectionThen, ı type int g0/0 and int g0/1 to open the ports of the switches to which our routers are connected and open the connection after assigning the IP addresses.
Afterwards, ı will need to virtually divide the switches under the router named R32 into 3, so ı move to subdivisions by saying int g0/0.10. Then, ı introduce VLAN 10 to IEEE standards by entering the encapsulation dot1Q 10 command into our console. Then, ı give the necessary IP address and subnet mask. I follow the same steps for the rest. After applying it to the switches, we have 3 separate IP addresses. I give the message "I have the network of the IP address we specified to the routers"
I enable neighboring IP addresses to recognize each other. I can achieve this with network 0.0.0.0 255.255.255.255. After this step, when any of our PC machines say they want an IP, our DHCP server will be able to distribute the IP. I make the necessary adjustments from the DHCP server to distribute the IPs to special switch pools. Then, they can direct the requests coming to our routers. For this, I enter the IP helper-address 192.168.111.67 command and thus, even if the router itself does not distribute the IP, it automatically connects to the DHCP server that distributes the IP. Then, I make the configuration settings of our switches. Afterwards, ı group our ports according to the vlan groups ı created. For example, int range fa0/11-20. , switchport access vlan20 this command assigns ports 11 to 20 to vlan20. Then, with the command ip route 0.0.0.0 0.0.0.0 78.1.1.14, the entire network is connected.Communication is provided so that each device can send packets up to the ISP.

